Welcome back, hopefully you had
a great time with exercise five,
we're gonna work through it together and
feel free to ask questions and things.
I'm gonna start on the new TSX file,
so this is our customer combo box.
ComboBox, that is exported
from our resource route.
So, if you look at that import that is
coming from a routes resources customers.
I'm gonna leave it like this full import
rather than doing relative import,
I just prefer having that till date.
I don't want to do
a relative import there.
Because yeah, like who wants to do that?
Not me, no.
So, we're gonna go with that.
And again, you do not typically
want to see this in your codebase,
you should not be importing things
from routes most of the time.
This is an exception, and
it's a darn good one.
So, the other thing that this customer
combo box accepts is the error because
it's the one responsible for
rendering our inputs and so
it's gonna render the error force as well.
And we get our errors from
the action data similar to this.
And that's gonna be errors dot customer.
This will get passed on in
our customer combo box.
Okay, great, so, in the customer
combo box, I actually created this
pattern when I created this workshop,
I was like, okay, I've got to
have a backend connected component
where I'm gonna put that component.
Well, here's my resource route.
I guess I could put make
a components directory or
something that why don't I just stick it
in there and then I can export it and
it actually is so nice to be able
to have this back end front end.
So, this is all very
much a front end thing.
We've got Downshift to this use
combo box hook that we're using and
rendering out all of our UI stuff for
that.
I think it's pretty rad.
And then we have our
back end code right here.
I think we wanna start is with our UI.
But you could really start with
whichever one that you want.
But I'm gonna start with the UI.
And so, we'll say we need to use fetcher
that's gonna be triggering the fetch
to our research route.
So our fetcher, use fetcher.
And fetcher seems like a pretty
reasonable name for me.
So, I'm gonna stick with that.
The fetcher when we do fetch
is gonna have a data property.
So, when that fetch is successful, it's
gonna have a data property that we can
use for the customers that we feed into
our combo box, the customers or the items.
And so, what we're going
to do is say fetcher.data.
And I think that the way that I do in
the final, is we say dot customers.
Because for me, I typically like objects
coming back with descriptive key names,
but you could just return the array,
that is fine.
So, if the fetcher data customers exist,
then that is what it is gonna be.
Otherwise we will have
it be an empty array.
Okay, so, if we have already fetched and
we have got some customers that is
what we want to show on our list.
Otherwise, we don't have
anything in the array there.
Great, so then, in our use combo
box on input value change,
we need to do a few things to actually
trigger this fetcher to submit this query.
So, first we're going to say,
if the changes that happened.inputvalue.
So, if there's no input value
then we'll just return or
just quick exit, we don't need to
make any fetch request in that case.
We could potentially store some state here
and say set customers to an empty array
to clear it out that's an option that you
have if you wanted to do it that way.
But we're just gonna leave the customers
that were there at the time that the input
value got grayed out.
So, that's a UX choice
that you can make there.
Okay, so, if there is an input value, and
we had that change,
then we're going to submit.
So, we're gonna say fetcher.submit.
And we're going to submit our query,
which will be changes.inputvalue.
So, this this query is our search.
And this is actually gonna go on
the search params on the query
params cuz we're actually going
to set this to a method of get.
So, we're going to submit this as a get.
And if we do not provide an action here,
then the action will default to whatever
route this component is rendered in.
So, it could go into,
in our case that will render in here and
we would have to have a loader that
handles this request in there and
that just does not really make sense.
I don't wanna have a loader
that handles the back end for
this component in every
route that I render this in,
that's what we're trying to do
in this exercise is avoid that.
And so,
we're going to specify an action and
that will point to the route that we're
currently in which is resources customers.
So, we'll say resources/customers.
And this is where things just get so
magical because now I'm looking at
the back end code for my front end code.
Goodbye indirection.
That sounds like a band one direction,
but it's no indirection.
So, this is great.
So, that's what we need to do to make sure
this ends up in the loader is to set it to
again and when you set it to get this will
be serialized as part of the query string
of the request.
So, first thing in our loader we wanna
do is to require the user we don't
want just random people to curl this
URL and get all of our customers
cuz that would be bad if they found
out that company x is our customer.
So, first we'll say,
await require a user and
we'll pass the request
we're gonna get here.
Let's say loaderArgs, and
we'll pass along the request.
So, make sure that we've got
an authenticated user before making
this request.
And now, we're going to perform
the search with search customers.
Now, where do we get this
query that was passed along?
We're gonna get that from
the search params on the request.
So, let's turn this
request URL into a URL.
So, a new URL, and
that's platform API right there.
request dot URL, also platform API.
So, now we've got the URL,
we can get the search params off of that.
So, we'll say search brands
is url.searchParams.
Here actually,
let's just call this our query.getquery.
So, now you've got a query and
this one is interesting.
So, this kind of resembles the API for
form data, right,
where you say dot get but this can only
be a string because you can't put
a file in the query string of a URL.
So, it can only be a string or
it could be null.
To take care of Typescript and just like
check ourselves because it should never
be no because we're never
calling this without a query.
But maybe somebody is gonna
do something silly so
let's just put an invariant in here,
it says type of query string,
and we could say query must be provided.
Alright, so, with that now we can say
search customers with that query.
And here's the matching customers or
we'll just call it customers and
that's gonna be a wait cuz
it is an a sync function.
And now, the last thing is return
a JSON response with the customers and
that JSON response is gonna
come from the same place
our loader actually came from,
Remix run node.
All right, great, I think we should
be set snap there was a problem.
Well, let's figure out
what the problem was then.
So much stuff,
cannot read property reading customers.
All right,
that is my bad data could be undefined.
There we go.
So, now, we say, yeah, wide open spaces.
We select that one, we say here's
my due date, here's the quantity,
we had two add to 5000,
it's Koala paintings.
Create invoice [SOUND] and
remember none of my code is saying
we just created a new invoice, so
let's add that to our array of invoices.
None of that because we
were revalidating for
you automatically just like the way
the web does, so that's great.
And that is creating an invoice,
we've just created a component
that is connected to its back end.
Yeah, I think that's pretty sweet.
What questions do you have
about what we have done here?
There are things that we could do,
I should have mentioned, or
things we could do to make this more type
safe add a bunch of TypeScript stuff.
This is not a TypeScript workshop, so
I'm not gonna bother with all that.
But yeah, just know that's actually why
I ran into that runtime errors because I
haven't made this type safe yet.
So, Peter, yeah.
>> In the loader, you can use the request
but there's also a params key,
could you use that to
get the query params?
>> So, I'm glad that you asked that.
So, these are search params and
these are request params.
The request params that is a Remix
specific thing or react router as well.
And that would apply if I
said dollar customer ID, and
then I could get
the customer ID off of that.
So, that's what those params
are referring to the parameters,
the search params are like actually
here we can witness this with our
very own eyes if I type something
then we're gonna get customers.
And you'll see there's our search
params right there that we added.
Remix is adding another query or
search params there, but
it strips that off before
it hands it off to you.
That's all implementation detail stuff.
But you can see your
search params right there.
And yeah, thanks for the question.
Any other questions?
Yeah,
>> What benefits do you get by putting
the fetcher inside routes
in the first place?
If in general it's a bad idea,
why can't it be just a separate component?
Is it because it needs this fake route for
its back end loader?
>> Great question.
So, to be clear,
this is not a fake route at all.
This is an actual route and
we could take this out.
And you can hit this API as
like an API route specifically.
So, we call this a resource route.
A resource route, is a route that
does not export a default function.
So, no default export.
Now you can hit this like
it's an API endpoint.
So, there's nothing
fake about this loader,
what we're doing the benefit is if I want
to have a component that tucks sorry,
that talks specifically to this loader.
Then typically what I would do is I'd
put it in at components directory or
something and stick it in there and
then I'd have indirection between
the component that cares about the route
and the route that handles it.
Because they're in different places,
but by putting it here,
I is still technically have indirection,
right?
Because if I change the name of this file,
then yeah, I've totally busted this.
But, I mean, you maybe could do
some code gen to like autofill.
That would be kind of interesting, but
that's not something that
was built into Remix.
But the indirection is greatly reduced
because you see exactly the component
that is responsible for talking to this
back end, which just may that's so nice.
So, I do definitely
recommend this pattern,
and that is why I'm
teaching it to you today.
And just to be clear, we could not get the
same behavior if we moved all of the code
in this file to something
outside of the routes directory.
For this loader to be a loader,
it has to be in the routes directory.
>> Would you add debouncing
in this scenario?
>> Great question.
Yeah, so,
it is pretty common practice
to debounce the input so
that you don't search instantly
as the user is typing.
And you can see maybe
why as I type in here,
every single time I type something
I'm making another request.
And normally, I have done that,
I have added debounce.
In this case, I actually think it's fine.
Is there a problem with this?
I don't think so.
Unless your backend can't handle a couple
of requests from a couple of users.
I don't know.
It seems fine, there could be some
infrastructure related limitations
that you've got but for
me this actually seems okay.
I think the reason that I would typically
debounce is because I wasn't confident in
my ability of handling race conditions,
but
Remix handles those of
handling race conditions.
But remix handles those for
me automatically so,
I don't have to think about that.
So yeah, I probably, if I were
building this UI today, I would not
bother adding a debounce, if you wanted to
add a debounce then you absolutely could,
you have your debounce function.
Debounce inside of React code
is kind of surprisingly tricky,
but there are probably NPM packages for
it.
You'd have your debounce function out here
that's responsible for doing the fetcher,
and then you'd call it in here.
And that should work.
I think actually you may be able to create
the debounce function, now you'd have
to put it inside the component so you have
access to the fetcher which is a shame,
made me work but
it's Debounce always complicates things.
It's not gonna be a lot but enough that I
don't see enough of a problem to add it.
And on top of that debounce also
makes your app feel slower.
Because now you're automatically having to
wait two to 300 milliseconds before any
requests go out.
So, this is this pretty fast.
The other thing is we haven't
done anything here with this yet
but you can add headers and cache control,
for a second I forgot what
this header is called.
And max age of 10 or 30.
And so,
as the user is typing I go backspace and
they're making the same request
they're gonna get the same data
they did before and
that's all just stored in the browser.
So, it's user specific and everything.
So, in that case you're hitting your back
end less even though you're making all of
those requests.
So, that might be something worth adding,
I would certainly add that before
I started thinking about debounce.
Yeah.
>> How would you approach this progressive
enhancement without JavaScript?
>> Yeah, okay, good question.
How do you do this with
progressive enhancement?
So yes, there is no way that this
progressively enhances by itself.
Because when you're doing imperative data
fetching, imperative by itself just says
cannot be done without JavaScript,
you got to have clients that JavaScript.
So, if the progressive enhancement
story matters a lot to you and
your app then what you could do is
initially render this as a select.
Or there actually is a built in I think
it's called a dataset input element.
And you could have it be a dataset.
The problem with that is if you
have a really big customer list,
which is typically why you build something
like this search in the first place.
Yeah, that's gonna be
loading too much data, right?
So, in that case, if you really needed the
progressive, I would not bother with this.
Let me just state that clearly,
I would just say,
app only works with JavaScript for
this particular use case.
But if it was important to you, then
you would instead allow people to input
the customer ID, because that's
what's ultimately gonna be submitted.
In fact, when I select wide open spaces,
if we dive into this,
we'll see the input right here,
the value is wide open spaces but
I also render an input right
here with the name customer ID.
So, this is actually that
workaround I was talking about and
the reason downshift is accessible and
it does the web thing.
The problem is that I don't wanna
submit the customer name, but
I wanna display the customer name.
So, that's why I'm doing this little
workaround where I can have a hidden input
for the customer ID.
So, you could just require that
they provide the customer ID and
then you have another page
that has all the customers and
they look it up over there or something.
Okay, so yeah, it's challenging with
some more of these advanced API's but
totally possible.
>> Can I get extra points for
using fetcher dot load?
Or maybe I did something wrong.
>> Yeah, that's a good question.
You can totally use fetcher dot load and
in that case you don't get the second,
how does,
I don't use fetcher dot load very much.
I think it expects the URL here,
let's look at what this says.
Yeah, it expects the h ref and
then you construct the search string,
that works totally fine too.
I just find this to be a little easier.
But yeah, here if we wanted to do it
this way, we'd say url search params,
new url search params or
you could construct it yourself but
then you need to make sure
you escape it and all that.
So, I'm not gonna bother
with that nonsense.
We're gonna say,
put our query thing in here.
And we'll say resources customers and
then search params.
So, that is functionally
equivalent to what we've done.
Extra points, I don't know,
are I don't just give those out, yeah,
totally extra points,
but that should work.
I would just use the submit.
I just think it's easier.